Yacht Charter Questions Answered
Here you can find any possible answers to your yacht charter and sailing questions.
Your Frequently asked Questions about Yacht Charter and Sailing
 
Select a question below to find the answer

All Advice Finance
How Do I Pay For My Yacht Charter?
We have 3 efficient methods of payment.
WIRED BANK TRANSFER
Our Prefered Method
Bank Transfer is our standard preferred method of payment. Your payments are made in accordance with the payment plan set out by your Charter Agent. Typically you will be expected to pay 25 – 50% on booking, with the remainder due around 6 weeks before departure.

CREDIT CARD
All Major Cards
Customers do still want the option to use major credit. SailChecker accepts all major credit cards except American Express. We do want to ensure we have the most competitive rates possible for everyone at all times. For that reason, the cost of this services is passed on. We don’t accept PayPal at this time.

WIRED BANK TRANSFER
SailChecker Invovation
If your are paying in a different currency to your supplier, Currency Transfer Agents are an efficient way of paying high ticket items goods in other currencies. We have accounts with two large partners, but will always work with you to accept payments from your prefered supplier too.

WHAT MAKES SAILCHECKER DIFFERENT?
WILL I GET SEASICK WHEN SAILING?
Yacht Charter Refundable Deposit Guide
EVERYTHING YOU NEEDED TO KNOW BUT WERE AFRAID TO ASK
Boat Gel Coat RepairBoat PolishSailchecker Boat
Yacht Charter Deposit
What does a yacht charter deposit cover?
It covers all damage to the yacht during your charter.

Can I waive the damage?
Like renting a car, you can pay additional insurance to waive all, or some of the yacht charter deposit. The cost of this type of insurance (if available) is typically 10% of the full yacht charter deposit. Ask your SailChecker consultant for details.

How much is a deposit?
Damage deposits range depending on the age and value of your yacht. They start at around €1,500 and can be as much as €10,000 for the most expensive bareboat charter yachts.

When do I Pay?
Typically, a deposit is taken at the start of your charter by the base.  The funds are used to repair the yacht up to this amount should you cause any damage.  If you do cause any damage over this amount, the insurance, which is part of your charter fee, will pay for the remainder.

How do I Pay?
Most operators will accept a credit card and take a “pre-authorisation”, so you do need ‘room’ on the card. There are some notable exceptions, your SailChecker consultant is aware of all the variations and will be delighted to help.

How it works
Handover/Takeover
Before and after your charter, the yacht will be inspected. During takeover, you should be careful to note any damage you see. We do recommend taking pictures of anything you see.

Fair Wear and Tear
You should not incur any charges for “fair wear and tear” on the yacht. This is the area that is most disputed. if you believe something broke because it was old, or that you did nothing wrong, you should ask to speak with the base manager.

What should I do if I want to dispute something?
Most charter companies are very good and want repeat business, it is not in their interests to charge customers for damage they are not liable for.  But disputes do happen. We always recommend talking to the base and keeping things amicable. You should take lots of pictures. Once you have done

How can SailChecker.com help?
At SailChecker we will always book with a reputable charter company who we know. Sometimes it is preferable to pay a little more to get a better company, or at least one that participates in a review system.

If you are still not enjoying any satisfaction, you should call us here at SailChecker and we will arbitrate on your behalf. It is impossible to make promises, but we are very successful in obtaining goodwill from our operators and have some great examples.

Ask us about Yacht Charter Deposits